This seems to me to be a book of unique interest. The irresistible humor and the force of Yoshio Markino’s writing is well known to critics, for in reviewing his three large color books, “The Color of London,” “The Color of Paris,” and “The Color of Rome,” most of them have given as much space to the single chapter contributed by the artist as they have to the entire letterpress of the book.

Nor is this surprising, for Mr. Markino in his quaint English has sometimes an arrestiveness almost equal to Thomas Carlyle’s. There is real style in it. He has evolved a grammar of his own which is strikingly effective.

In his new volume, “A Japanese Artist in London,” he has a subject eminently suited to exhibit the humor and pathos and forcefulness of his style. For in it he relates his stern battles with starvation, and the strange experiences into which he was plunged by the extraordinary succession of trades to which{x} his poverty condemned him. When he first came over he was working in the Japanese Legation and Art Schools. Then he tried starvation for a time. He became a model in one of the Art Schools where he had been a student; then a tombstone-maker at Norwood. Then he starved again until he met his good fairy, Mr. M. H. Spielmann, who got him various commissions. He helped to stage “The Darling of the Gods”; illustrated magazines and newspapers, not at all in his own line; and finally obtained a commission to illustrate “The Color of London,” and arranged an exhibition where he sold the originals.

In San Francisco he cleaned windows and scrubbed floors to get the money for his art-school fees, and lived on the bread given to the students to rub out the charcoal; then he made teeth for a dentist; at odd times he has been even a naval architect.

He belongs to a very old Samurai family in Japan, and always kept his starvation and hardships concealed from them with true Japanese Bushido. But now the world is to have the full and unvarnished account of them told in Mr. Markino’s inimitable Japa{xi}nese English—and the result is a book of pathos and humor which comes half-way between Michael Fairless’s “Roadmender” and Mr. Dooley’s “Impressions.”

It is a book which will live, for it tells with absolute candor and fidelity of life right down to the bed-rock of starvation, and it adds a new variety of humor to British literature.

The book was not easily written. It perhaps never would have been written if so much of it had not been comprised in his correspondence with Miss Olave Potter, who wrote the letterpress of “The Color of Rome.” Some of the matter which is here made public he wrote to her in private, other parts of it were written on her suggestions arising from their correspondence. Sometimes Mr. Markino was at a loss for the English word. He replaced it with a picture, going back to the Japanese habit of ideograms, and so ingeniously that Miss Potter was never at a loss to translate it into words. She arranged the manuscript and corrected the proofs. How wisely she refrained from tampering with his English, the reader will see. Its very crudeness has its force, its hu{xii}mor, and not infrequently its pathos, while its artless confessions show that Mr. Markino has as white a soul as ever entered a human body. He is absolutely candid and entirely without false shame; he records poverty so dire that his work was paralyzed by hunger. He often had to get into bed in the middle of the day to get warm enough to hold his brushes, and at one time walked every day from Kensal Rise to Norwood, except a pennyworth of tram from Westminster to Brixton, and from Norwood back the whole way to Kensal Rise, which he reached at midnight.

There are no pages which make pleasanter reading than those which record the goodness of the poor landladies to this Japanese castaway; when he could not afford to buy food they shared their own with him; when he had no money at all they let his bill for lodgings run into pounds. Some went further and lent him the money out of their savings-boxes. When prosperity shone again a little they were always faithfully repaid. He writes of them now in the same terms of equality and friendship as he uses when he is{xiii} talking about his Cabinet Minister friend. He is as incapable of thinking himself better than the humble as he is of considering himself inferior to the great. At the present moment he shares his heart between the Cabinet Minister and a shoemaker.

Yoshio Markino is more like a spirit than most of the spirits clothed in flesh which we call human beings. At houses where he opens his heart to their inmates and feels intimate, he flutters in bubbling over with news and excitement—he always has news even if he had met you an hour ago—he counts his friends, as it were, to see if they are all there, gathers each to himself with some little private personal touch, and then sits down on the floor as he was taught to sit when he was a tiny mite in Dai Nippon. His unselfishness, his chivalry, his warmth of heart, recall all one has read of the Bushido of the Samurai class, to which he belongs, in the “Tales of Old Japan.” And every reader of these pages will see much of the magical personality of which I speak, reflected in them. These lines, written by I don’t know whom, might have been written of him
It was December 8, 1897, when I arrived here from America, where I had been some four and a half years. I was quite young, but I was far more boyish than my own age. First of all I went to Paris, where I wanted to study Art. But I had neither money nor any knowledge of the French language. I had only one recommendation letter to some one. Unfortunately this gentleman had left Paris previously, so I decided to come to London to see some of my Japanese friends. I took the night train through Dieppe and New Heaven (Haven). From the very first it seemed to me to be a New Heaven; I had such a good impression with England. Those English officers on board the Channel boats had such gentle faces; they talked to me so kindly. It was a great comfort after the desperate struggle in Paris, where I was practically dumb and deaf.

{2}

When I arrived at New Heaven I had only forty francs in my pocket, and one small bag which contained three collars, one white shirt, one necktie, two pairs of socks, a German Bible and Keigan (a Buddhist Philosophy by Colonel Torio). The custom-house officer was so surprised when I told him that it was all my possessions.

It was four or five in the morning. I went into a coffee-stall and had a cup. The man Said it was “thruppence.” I could not understand it. I gave him ten franc piece, and he gave me the change. I could not, of course, count it, but after arriving in London my Japanese friend saw the change and he said it was quite right. The English money is so difficult for foreigners to calculate. For about half-year or so I always used to give bigger coin than the price of the things I purchased, and take the change without examining it. I was never deceived. Only I had to have so many coppers in my pocket—sometimes over three shillings in coppers!

Now, coming back to my journey. I arrived at London Bridge at seven, and took another train to Greenwich, where my Japanese artist friend was staying. I had an{3}other recommendation letter to the Japanese Naval Attaché in London. I saw him immediately. He was only too glad to keep me as his private secretary, for at the time Japan had ordered from English shipbuilders warships and some twenty or thirty torpedo boats, and he was extraordinarily busy. The naval inspector’s office was in Gloucester Terrace, so I settled myself down at 4 Milner Street in Chelsea. From ten to six I had to work at the office, then I attended at South Kensington College of Science and Art at night. My wages at the office were £5 a month; later on £8, then £9. I learnt afterwards that all this was from the naval attaché’s own pocket, just to “keep me on for the sake of art study.” I was quite alone in some boudoir-like room to work for the attaché. My surprise there on the first day was that the landlady brought me tea and bread and butter at 4.30. I said to myself, what a kind lady she is! The next day she brought in the tea again. So the third day I asked her if that tea was from the attaché or from her, and why? She said it was the English custom to have afternoon tea. Oh, what a beautiful custom! It was really a great refreshing for me. I said, “I{4} quite love England, only for afternoon tea alone.”

At this time I began to stroll on Sunday afternoons. At first I was so frightened with London fogs. I thought, if I live in such dreadful fog I will soon become consumptive. So I bought a respirator at a drug store, and used to wear it whenever I went out. When I visited peoples they laughed at me because I got a round black mark round my mouth. Nevertheless I kept it on until some doctor told me the fog was not so injurious as I thought. (Who knows? This “dreadful fog” has become my greatest fascination, only a few years later!)

As I had been in America previously for four years, naturally I used to compare everything here with that of America; and what great contrast between the two countries—especially to a Japanese! And here I feel I need to talk about my life in America, just roughly.

I ran away from home to San Francisco on July 1893, with a hope to become a poet or a writer in English. All my friends there advised me to become an artist instead, because one cannot master a foreign language. So I{5} entered into Hopkins’ Art College. Of course I was penniless. I had to make livelihood by washing windows and dishes, or a little better thing, making sets of false teeth for some dentists. It was awfully difficult for me to pay my school tuition, seven dollars a month. I stayed there for four years, but practically I have not attended the school more than twelve months altogether. The school used to supply French breads to the students for the purpose of charcoal drawing. But I used to live on this bread. I made it as my luncheon every day. (This is the very first time that I confess the truth. Thank Heaven that the curator did not find out!)

I was rather amused with my poor life, but by no means did I feel pleasant with the way those Californians treated me. It is the world-known fact that they hate Japanese. While I have been there four years I never went out to the parks, for I was so frightened of those savage people, who threw stones and bricks at me. Even when I was walking on the street the showers of pebbles used to fall upon me often. And I was spat on more occasionally. Of course they were very low-class peoples, but even better-class peoples had not{6} a very nice manner to the Japanese. If I got into a tram-car and sat down on an empty seat beside some ladies, they used to glare at me with such disgusting expression, and would get up and go away to find out a seat far away from me.

Once I went into a cable car in Sutter Street. I saw my classmate young lady opposite me. I took my hat off and greeted her. She turned her face away. I could not understand why, as she used to be so intimate to me in the class-room. The next day I went to the school. As soon as she saw me she began to apologize me, saying it was not her idea at all to insult me, but she was so frightened that those other occupants of the car might be indignant with her speaking to a Japanese. Another time I experienced far worse thing. I went out with my paint-box and canvas to the beach near Cliff House. No sooner than I started to paint, several boys came to me. They were all older than myself. They broke my paint-box. They threw away all colors and brushes into the sea and tore my canvas. Then they fled away. I was such a helpless boy I could do nothing but weep on the spot for hours. I was so sad, because it took me{7} three or four months working very hard to buy those materials.

Such was my life in America. But I had not so bad a feeling then as I should surely have if it happened now! Because America was the first foreign country I ever visited in my life, so I thought, if we Japanese go out anywhere we shall be treated like that, as an inferior race.

After such experiences I was naturally surprised with the cosmopolitan ideas of the Londoners.

I started my first sightseeing from Hyde Park and the Green Park and St. James’s Park. I could not understand all those iron railings. I thought they were to divide private grounds from the public ones. But I saw many people on both sides. I so timidly walked inside the rail. Nobody shouted me. Then I went near the crowds of people with still more fear. Being quite ignorant of the English civilization I anticipated some pebble-showers every minute. I waited and waited with beating heart, but nothing happened to me at all. I walked into the crowds who were feeding birds in the lake of St. James’s Park. Nobody spat on me! I ven{8}tured myself into the thickest crowds, and I was squeezed between the peoples. Nobody took any notice of me. “Hallo, hallo, what’s matter?” I said in my heart. “Perhaps they don’t know I am a Japanese.” I took off my hat on purpose to show my black hair. Finally one man pushed me quite accidentally, and he touched his hand to his hat and apologized me very politely. I realized at last that I was in the country where I could enjoy my liberty quite freely. Fancy polite apology instead of swearing and spitting! I felt as if I had come to a paradise in this world, and I was quite melted with comfort.

Perhaps nobody could ever imagine my most grateful feeling at this moment, except those of my fellow-country friends who were in California once. Even now, after some thirteen years’ stay in London, I often have nightmares of California, and wake up in midnight and wonder where I really am. When I realize that I am in London I feel so happy.

In the streets first thing I noticed was so many silk hats. Then those peoples who were walking seemed to me so gentle, and with very dignified manners. Indeed, in Cali{9}fornia you cannot walk one block without hearing swearings. Here you hear apologizing words instead.

On the bus I often sat down by the side of English lady. When other peoples got off there were many empty seats, but she would not bother herself to remove. In fact, it would give me more comfortable seat to be alone, but the idea of English ladies not bothering to move was far greater comfort for me.

At this time I went to a little newspaper shop to buy a box of cigarettes. The shopkeeper treated me quite same way with his countrymen. I asked him if he has seen Japanese before. He said “No.” Then I asked him again if he was not curious of me? He said, “No, sir. You see, sir, we ’ave our colonies all hover the world, sir—white men, yellow men, brown men and black men are forming parts of the British nations, so I am not curious of a Japanese gentleman at all.”

What a broad mind he had! He was only a little shopkeeper, but he was worthy of being called one of the most civilized of the nations. I made a friendship with him at{10} once, and I told him how I was treated in California. He said, “Thut ain’t fair, sir! Indeed, thut ain’t fair!” How sweet this word was to me! I carried this sweet “thut ain’t fair” in my head, and slept with it all night so comfortably.

As I lived in Chelsea I used to have walk on the Chelsea Embankment. It was my favorite place; so it is now too. One afternoon I made a longer promenade along the embankment to Westminster. On the way, I saw a large stone building in a peculiar shape, the Britannia on the top of the roof. It had no window. It stood dead silent like a ghost in the evening mist. I thought it must be a mausoleum of some ancient kings. But my landlady told me that it must be the Tate Gallery. “You ought to go in there one day, there are beautiful pictures; it is just the place you ought to go to.”

Westminster Abbey was a great revelation to me. While I was a schoolboy in Japan, I learnt all the history of the Abbey; then Washington Irving described it so vividly in his “Sketch Book,” which was my most favorite book. Generally travelers are disappointed with sightseeing if they trust books